# CS-250-Software-Development-Lifecycle

We interpret user needs by listening by what they want to do with a program to achieve a certain goal.  We use the "As a y, I would like to do x so that z" form. There is a functionality inherent there, which we can turn into a feature represented by a user story.  Without the user stories, the project's narrative can be completely obscured.  Why does this project exist?  Who is it for?  What is it trying to achieve?  User stories help answer these questions and keep a project centered on the end-user, ensuring that things don't get over-complicated or go off the rails.  As I've said in another course, if Facebook had been too complicated for the average user, we'd still be using MySpace. 

My other course this term was centered around considering technical design constraints for applications, and one thing I took away from that was that developing programs can fall on a spectrum from a very holistic high-level idea to finished product type, or a more concrete project where a client already has technologies in mind and an end-product they have a vision for.   Overall, however, the processes within each development are similar:  we have to take ideas and translate them into actionable tasks.  I am a "super-planner", but sometimes I get hamstrung because I spend too much time planning and not enough time executing.  The agile process is something I want to try to incorporate into my future work (and life) by consistently ensuring that my tasks are purposeful and collaborative, while being flexible enough to change as needed without harming overall productivity.  When I first started coding, I would open the IDE and just start writing, leading to spaghetti code and crazy-hard-to-find bugs.  If the program didn't work, I would be back to square one because I would wait until the end to do any testing.  The consistent testing and breaking development into smaller and smaller units which can be built to work together was a powerful lesson from this course. 

Overall, being a good team member in development is a hybrid of "soft" social skills and "hard" technical skills.  You need the coding ability to handle your workload, but also the communication abilities to make sure that your team can rely on you to participate equally in planning and reviews.  Having patience and curiosity are also great traits to have as a developer, as they will serve you well during difficult projects where you need to learn new concepts.   
